TL;DR.
This week in 30 seconds:.
Health AI: OpenAI launches ChatGPT Health with access to medical data – 230 million users already ask health questions weekly.
Hardware Push: Nvidia unveils Rubin Platform at CES with 10x cheaper inference costs.
Enterprise Drive: Anthropic secures Allianz as partner and targets $350 billion valuation.
AI Everywhere: Google brings Gemini to Gmail, Microsoft to retail, while CES shows where we're heading.
🌟 Story of the Week
OpenAI Brings AI to Healthcare.
On January 7, 2026, OpenAI announced ChatGPT Health – a dedicated AI environment for health questions with medical data integration .
The numbers show the demand: Over 230 million users already ask health questions on the platform weekly .
The new feature allows connection with Apple Health, MyFitnessPal, Function Labs, and other health apps through partner b.well .
Conversations remain in an isolated environment and are not used for model training .
"ChatGPT Health addresses healthcare system challenges including cost and access barriers, overbooked doctors, and a lack of continuity in care."
— Fidji Simo, CEO of Applications at OpenAI
Critical Voices: OpenAI's own Terms of Service emphasize that the tool is "not intended for diagnosis or treatment" .
Large Language Models are prone to hallucinations – potentially dangerous in medicine.
Regulatory questions remain open: No FDA approval was mentioned, nor liability issues for erroneous AI recommendations.
Privacy advocates will likely question long-term storage of health data – despite HIPAA compliance for the Enterprise version.
In parallel, OpenAI announced "OpenAI for Healthcare" for organizations – with HIPAA compliance and special enterprise features.
Rollout begins in the coming weeks .
Bottom Line: OpenAI makes the first major move into the healthcare market, but regulatory and ethical hurdles are enormous.
Anyone making medical decisions here should proceed with caution.
🔥 More Top Stories
1. Nvidia Shows Future of AI Hardware at CES
Nvidia unveiled the Rubin Platform on January 5 – six integrated chips for the next generation of AI supercomputers .
The system combines the Vera CPU with 88 Olympus cores, the Rubin GPU with 50 petaflops of NVFP4 compute, and four additional components into an integrated superchip .
The performance leaps are remarkable: 10x lower inference token costs and 4x fewer GPUs for training Mixture-of-Experts models compared to Blackwell .
Rubin is already in production, systems arriving in the second half of 2026 .
Major cloud providers are on board: AWS, Google Cloud, Microsoft, Oracle, as well as Anthropic and OpenAI as first customers .
2. Google Turns Gmail into AI Hub
On January 8, Google announced Gemini 3 integration in Gmail .
New features include AI Overviews for thread summaries, "Help Me Write" for composing emails, and context-based Smart Replies .
Particularly interesting: Gmail can now answer questions like "Who was the plumber who gave me a quote last year?" by searching the entire email history .
Thread summaries are free for everyone, advanced features require Google AI Pro or Ultra subscriptions .
In parallel, Google showed new Gemini features for Google TV at CES – with voice control for settings and Google Photos integration .
3. Anthropic on Enterprise Mission
Anthropic kicked off 2026 with a bang: On January 9, the partnership with insurance giant Allianz was announced .
Claude Code will be rolled out to all Allianz employees, plus both companies are jointly developing custom AI agents for insurance workflows .
According to a December Menlo Ventures survey, Anthropic already holds 40% enterprise market share – up from 32% in July 2025 .
In parallel, reports circulate about a $10 billion funding round that would value Anthropic at $350 billion .
Lead investors reportedly include Singapore's sovereign wealth fund GIC and Coatue Management, with Microsoft and Nvidia as existing investors .
⚡ Quick Hits
Brief notes:.
Meta Nuclear: Meta secured 6+ gigawatts of nuclear power from Oklo, TerraPower, and Vistra to supply AI infrastructure .
Grok Ban: Indonesia blocked xAI's Grok due to non-consensual sexualized deepfakes .
Microsoft Retail: Microsoft announced Copilot Checkout – AI shopping with PayPal, Shopify, and Stripe integration, available in the US .
Audio-First: OpenAI preparing an audio-first personal device, expected in about a year .
OpenAI Grove: New accelerator program for early-stage founders runs from January 22 to February 27, 2026.
🛠 Tool of the Week
Claude Code v2.1.0 - AI Coding Agent with Improved Agent Lifecycle Control.
Anthropic's coding agent received a major update with 1,096 commits .
New features: Better session portability, skills development, multilingual outputs, and refined agent management .
According to VentureBeat, developers say Claude Code outperforms Cursor, GitHub Copilot, and even Gemini 3 Pro for coding.
Claude Code on GitHub
💥 Fail of the Week
"Grok Generates Non-Consensual Deepfakes"
Indonesian authorities temporarily blocked xAI's Grok chatbot after it became known that the platform can create sexualized deepfakes without consent of depicted persons .
Root Cause: Missing content moderation and safety guardrails in image generation – a problem affecting many AI image generators, but especially critical for a public chatbot.
What We Learn: Safety cannot be retrofitted – guardrails must be part of the architecture from day one.
📊 Number of the Week
$350 Billion
The target valuation for Anthropic in the current funding round .
For comparison: That would exceed Intel's market cap ($200B) and make Anthropic one of the most valuable private tech companies.
The $10 billion investment would primarily flow into compute infrastructure and model training.
📚 Reading List
For the weekend:.
1.  In 2026, AI will move from hype to pragmatism  - TechCrunch on the shift to smaller, task-focused models (8 min)
2.  NVIDIA CES 2026 Special Presentation  - Jensen Huang's complete Rubin Platform keynote (15 min)
3.  The creator of Claude Code just revealed his workflow  - Inside look at Claude Code development (10 min)
🔮 Next Week
What's coming:.
OpenAI Grove Accelerator starts January 22.
Rubin-based cloud instances expected for Q3/Q4 2026.
ChatGPT Health rollout in coming weeks.
More CES aftershocks: Hands-on reviews of announced AI hardware.
This newsletter was researched and written with AI assistance.
Images generated with  Pollinations.ai .